---
layout: post
title: "Board Certification in Quantitative Reasoning"
category: math
tags: [law]
---

Chief Justice Roberts's disparaging dismissal of partisan
gerrymandering metrics as "socialogical gobbledygook" keeps bothering
me. As others have pointed out, it's hard to know whether he truly
feels that way or if his dismissal was more strategic. Regardless, he
can only get away with this statement because of how are society
treats math and statistics. On the one hand, they're recognized as
crucial tools for the modern world. People are very supportive of
STEM. On the other hand, people readily admit their hatred of math or
how bad they are at it yet would never make the analogous statement
saying they hated reading.

Math truly is everywhere and everyone encounters math and statistics
in their life and work. But it's one thing for a cook or an artist to
disparage math and it's another for a judge to do so. Some evidence in
the courts is statistical in nature. An unwillingness to engage with
such data is irresponsible. We would never let a judge get away with a
blanket refusal to consider case law before 1950.

Just as doctors get board certified in their specialties, so do
lawyers. The specialities are what you'd expect: "estates and trusts",
"intellectual property", "real estate", etc. I'd like to see a new
board certification in Quantitative and Statistical
Reasoning. Certainly many lawyers know this material well already. But
such a certification might encourage more to learn it better. And I'd
certainly rather see a judge appointed who isn't afraid of such tools
than one who is.

