---
layout: post
title: "Books read in 2019"
category: personal
tags: [books]
---

Unless otherwise noted, book was audio format.

Books for prior years can be found [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/personal/2017/01/01/Books-I-have-read-since-20xx)

- Dec, *Twilight* by Stephenie Meyer.
  - Liked it more than I thought I would. And I'm actually kind of
    curious how the series continues, but the descriptions were over
    the top and romance as the main plot point doesn't interest me.

- Dec, *The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet* by Becky Chambers.
  - Nice, light sci-fi. Will probably read the sequal.

- Dec, *Salt* by Mark Kurlanksy.
  - Lots of interesting facts and I definitely have a better
    appreciation for the importance of salt throughout history, but
    probably more detail than I needed.

- Dec, *Prisoner B-3087* by Alan Gratz (paper, aloud).
  - Well done. Brutal and scary, especially given today's climate.

- Dec, *Being Mortal* by Atul Gawande (book club).
  - Interesting thoughts on how the medical profession and society can
    best support the aged and terminally ill. Seemed a little
    unorganized and not very poetic, but thought provoking. I would
    have preferred as a book of essays.

- Dec, *The Death of Ivan Ilych* by Leo Tolstoy.
  - Short and good reminder of what's important in life. A little heavy handed.

- Dec, *Boots on the Ground: America's War in Vietnam* by Elizabeth Partridge.
  - Short but interesting recollections by people involved at
    different times and different ways in the war. Glad I read it.

- Nov, *And the Band Played On* by Randy Shilts (book club).
  - Fascinating and horrifying. Great and wrenching book.

- Nov, *A Christmas Carol* by Charles Dickens (paper, aloud).
  - Loved it. Great language. Ridiculous descriptions.

- Nov, *Mightier Than the Sword* by Drew Callander and Alana Harrison (paper, aloud).
  - Clever book with some very nice wordplay. Looking forward to the sequel.
  
- Nov, *The Great Believers* by Rebecca Makkai (book club).
  - Fascinating and sad. Superbly written characters. Story made me want to
    learn more about the AIDS epidemic.

- Oct, *Ready Player One* by Andy Weir (ebook, aloud, repeat).
  - My 9-year-old son and I both loved it. A little too much explication in the beginning.

- Oct, *The Right Stuff* by Tom Wolfe.
  - Loved it. Focuses on the early astronauts and their culture up to beginning of Mercury.

- Oct, *The Boys in the Boat* by Daniel James Brown.
  - Great history.
  
- Oct, *Endurance: A Year in Space, A Lifetime of Discovery* by Scott Kelly.
  - I enjoyed reading an account that was open about the annoyances of
    living in the ISS. Good details on station life.

- Oct, *Where the Crawdads Sing* by Delia Owens (paper, book club).
  - Atmospheric. Fine. Some issues with how the murder mystery was fit in.

- Sep, *Amulet (Series; 1-7)* by Kazu Kibuishi (paper, aloud). 

- Sep, *Kid Scientists* by David Stabler (paper, aloud).

- Aug, *The Adventure Zone: Here there be Gerblins* by Clint McElroy (paper,graphic novel).

- Aug, *Moonbound: Apollo 11 and the Dream of Spaceflight* by Jonathan Fetter-Vorm (paper, graphic novel).
  - Loved it.

- Aug, *Hell Divers* by Nicholas Sansbury Smith.
  - Interesting premise; military sci-fi.

- Aug, *The Inn Between* by Marina Cohen.
  - Okay.
  
- Aug, *Ungifted* by Gordan Korman (paper, aloud).
  - The writing was fine, but since I really dislike the gifted/ungifted
    framework it's hard to feel too warmly towards it.

- Aug, *A Short History of Nearly Everything* by Bill Bryson.
  - I enjoyed this a lot. He pulls together fascinating stories and
    manages to educate without wading through dry fundamentals. As
    I've seen noted elsewhere, though, the book could use an update
    regarding climate change.

- Aug, *Holes* by Louis Sachar (paper, aloud, repeat).
  - Great book. Loved reading it to my son.

- July, *The Emperor's Soul* by Brandon Sanderson.
  - Short. Plot held together well.
  
- July, *Goblin Secrets* by William Alexander (paper, aloud)
  - Okay. I kept expecting the Changing to be explained more. A fair
    amount went into the world building, but then I felt like not much
    ultimately happened in the plot. Maybe I was judging it more as adult fiction.

- July, *World Without Mind* by (book club).
  - More interesting than I expected. Some strong arguments that the
    tech-giant behemoths aren't just bad in a hand-wringing way, but
    also concrete ways that suggest breaking them up. I also liked the
    discussion of different reasons you might use to justify breaking
    up monopolies.

- July, *One False Note (39 Clues, No. 2)* by Gordon Korman (paper, aloud).

- Jun, *Walls Within Walls* by Maureen Sherry (paper, aloud).

- June, *Where You'll Find Me* by Ty Gagne (paper).
  - Sad, gripping account of hypothermia victim in the North
    Presidentials who picked a really bad day in February to hike. I
    liked the emphasis on risk management.

- June, *Washington Black* by Esi Edugyan (book club).
  - This was okay. Not really sure where we were headed or why. A
    number of fantastical elements to the plot.

- Jun, *The Maze of Bones (39 Clues, No. 1)* by Rick Riordan (paper, aloud).
  - Moved along well. Perhaps not a great read right after

- Jun, *The Three-body Problem* by (book club).
  - Fleshing out of a well-known scientific possibility.
    Interesting plot, but no character development and language
    is very dry.

- Jun, "Apocalypse Taco" by Nathan Hale (paper, graphic novel).
  - Not my usual fare. Fast-paced culinary horror. Seems like the kind
    of book in which the title came first and the plot later.

- Jun, *Walls Within Walls* by Sherry Maureen (paper, aloud).
  - Pretty good puzzle mystery situated in New York.

- May, *Whiskey When We're Dry* by John Larison (book club).
  - Okay, plot was not very interesting to me. Pulled in a large of
    variety of things --- gender, race, etc.

- May, *Astrotwins: Project Blastoff* by Mark Kelley (paper, aloud).
  - Okay. A little clunky. I didn't know anything about it going in
    and was disappointed to learn that it was fictional rather than
    autobiographical. Some mathematical errors.

- Apr, *Mistborn: The Hero of Ages* by Brandon Sanderson.  
  - Good end to the series. Ties together well.

- Apr, *Tumble and Blue* by Cassie Beasley (paper, aloud).
  - Nice story with positive message about friendship and not giving up.

- Apr, *Mistborn: The Well of Ascension* by Brandon Sanderson.  
  - These are what one would call a guilty pleasure. I really enjoy them.

- Mar, *Moonwalking with Einstein* by Joshua Foer.
  - I loved this book. Fascinating. Good much of the author's
    storyline with a history of memory.

- Mar, *James and the Giant Peach* by Roald Dahl (paper, aloud).
  - I'm not sure I had ever read this as a child (though likely I had
    and have just forgotten). It was enjoyable but unsatisfying in a
    way I can't put my finger on.

- Mar, *The Phantom Tollbooth* by Norton Juster (paper, aloud, repeat).
  - I love the wordplay in this. I saw someone complain in a review
    that Milo doesn't actually do much, he just goes along for the
    right and that that makes it boring. There's some truth to this,
    but I came for the wordplay and it's just as great as I'd remembered.

- Mar, *Soul of an Octopus* by Sy Montgomery.
  - A little too poetic at times for me, but I have a new appreciation
    for how amazing octopuses are. More on the physiology and biology
    would be been interesting.

- Mar, *Educated* by Tara Westover (paper, book club).
  - The author certainly has had an interesting journey to where she
    is now. I'm glad to have the insight into a very different
    world, but the events are uniformly painful to read about.

- Feb, *Deep Work* by Cal Newport (ebook).
  - This was surprisingly good. Some advice consisted of things I've
    tried in the past or knew I should be doing but am not, while
    other parts of the book gave new ways to think about how to
    prioritize and work more effectively and efficiently. I suspect
    this book is most helpful for people, like me, who are frustrated
    by some of their work habits and are motivated to try to change
    them.p

- Feb, *Wonder* by R. J. Palacio (paper, aloud).
  - My son and I both liked this. An uplifting story about kindness
    and being different.

- Feb, *Seeing like a State* by James C. Scott.
  - Fascinating perspective on governments and the idea that structure
    is often placed on things and activities for the benefit of the
    entity placing the structure rather than the ones subject to
    it. The ideas about the informal activities needed to make formal
    structures work was also very illuminating. A little long and
    repetitive to my mind, but worth the read.

- Jan, *Florida* by Lauren Groff (ebook,book club).
  - A collection of vaguely unsettling short stories. Felt very
    current. She can really write some wonderful sentences.

- Jan, *The Death of Truth* by Michiko Kakutani (paper, book club).
  - As someone in the book club characterized it, this was effectively
    a book review of the age of Trump. I didn't feel like I learned
    anything. It was a bunch of quotes, impressions and unsupported
    claims strung together. Lots of names were dropped, but without
    any real analysis. At least it was short.

- Jan, *Mistborn: The Final Empire* by Brandon Sanderson.  
  - I enjoyed this. I was looking for something to keep me awake
    during a long drive and this fit the bill. The fantasy elements
    were novel and well conceived. The plot moved along and
    characterizations were good. There wasn't anything particular
    notable about the writing style, but that's not what I was really
    looking for.

- Jan, *The Boy Who Harnassed the Wind* (young readers edition) by William Kamkwamba and Bryan Mealer (paper, aloud).
  - I read this aloud to my son. We loved it. He was really excited to
    learn about a contemporary inventor and we were both very
    interested to learn about William's life in Malawi.

