---
layout: post
title: "Books read in 2020"
category: personal
tags: [books]
---

Unless otherwise noted, book was audio format.

Books for prior years can be found [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/personal/2019/01/07/Books)

1. Jan, *Less* by Andrew Sean Greer (book club).
  - So boring. Didn't care about the characters at all. Some nice
    analogies, but that was about it. I couldn't wait for his journey
    around the world to be over. Pulitzer!

2. Jan, *The Name of this Book is Secret* by Pseudonymous Bosch (paper, aloud).
  - Okay. Some nice puzzly stuff in the appendix. 

3. Jan, *Beyond the Beautiful Forevers* by Katherine Boo.
  - Excellent book illuminating the lives of a number of the abject
    poor outside the Mumbai airport around 2009. Depressing, but very
    interesting.

4. Jan, *Keeper of the Lost Cities* by Shannon Messenger (paper, aloud).
   - Engaging YA. Lots of similarities with (say) Harry Potter, but it
     pulled me in and am looking forward to the second book.

5. Jan, *Into the Wild* by Jon Krakauer.
   - Interesting and sad.

6. Feb, *Because of the Rabbit* by Cynthia Lord (paper, aloud).
   - Cute. I found it a little slow, but nice messages.
 
7. Feb, *A Closed and Common Orbit (Wayfarers #2)* by Becky Chambers.
   - Loved it. Great exploration of issues relating to sentient AI.

8. Feb, *The Great Alone* by Kristin Hannah (book club).
   - First two thirds was good, even though it was basically
     recounting a situation where everything just kept getting
     worse. But then it sped up, was overly dramatic and turned into a
     Hallmark Channel movie. Didn't like the ending at all.

9. Feb, *Wesley the Owl* by Stacey O'Brien.
   - Fascinating and really sweet true story. Pretty gross in places.

10. Feb, *Exile: Keep of the Lost Cities #2* by Shannon Messenger (paper, aloud).
   - Good. A little slow. Would probably stop series if not encouraged
     by my daughter to keep reading it to her.

11. Mar, *Record of a Spaceborn Few (Wayfarers #3)* by Becky Chambers.
    - Interesting exploration of some societal issues, not as good as
      the second in the series.

12. Mar, *Born Standing Up* by Steve Martin.
    - Great, short, funny, interesting book.

13. Mar, *The Martian* by Andy Weir (kindle, aloud, repeat). 
    - Love this. Really moves along. Exciting even though I knew the storyline.

14. Mar, *This is How You Lose the Time War* by Max Gladstone and Amal El-Mohtar.
    - Didn't like. Very choppy. Awkward pop-culture references. No
      explanation of how the time threads worked. Didn't really
      understand the ending, but perhaps only because I was no longer
      concentrating very hard.

15. Mar, *Interior Chinatown* by Charles Wu.
    - Funny and heartfelt. Not awesome, but i liked it.

16. Apr, *The Mars Room* by Rachel Kushner.
    - Really good. Sounds like she did a lot of research into prison life. Great characters.

17. May, *American Prison* by Shane Bauer (paper, book club).
    - Interesting history of prisoners for hire in America. The
      insight into prison life was good but I wish there had been
      things like a typical schedule. I never felt like I quite
      understood how it worked.

18. May, *Everblaze: Keeper of the Lost Cities #3* by Shannon Messenger (paper, aloud).
    - Okay. Some exciting parts, but I feel like there is too much gratuitous mysteriousness.
      And there is so much where very little happens.

19. May, *Mightier than the Sword: The Edge of the Word* by Drew Callander, Alana Harrison, Ryan Andrews (paper, aloud).
    - Very clever wordplay. Good messages. Enjoyed just as much as the first book in the series.

20. May, *The Red Pyramid (Kane Chronicles #1) by Richard Riordan (paper, aloud).
    - Fine. Slow. HIs books just don't grab me.

21. Jun, *Last Day on Mars* by Kevin Emerson (paper, aloud).
    - Enjoyable sci-fi. Looking forward to the next in the series.

22. Jun, *The Bear and the Nightingale* by Katherine Arden.
    - In the style of a Russian fairytale. I liked it.

- (In progress), *Black Leopard, Red Wolf* by Marlon James.

- (In progress), *The Lies of Locke Lamora* by Scott Lynch.

- (In progress), *The Elements of Eloquence* by Mark Forsyth (reread).

- (In progress), *A Confederacy of Dunces* by John Kennedy Toole (paper, book club).


- (In progress), *Fall* by Neal Stephenson (paper, book club).

- (In progress), *Neverseen: Keeper of the Lost Cities #4" by Shannon Messenger (paper, aloud).

